# Impulse response functions

Effect of the structural (factor) shocks over time.

## Usage

``` r
irf(
  x,
  ahead = 8,
  structural_restrictions = NULL,
  shocks = NULL,
  hairy = FALSE,
  ...
)
```

## Arguments

- x:

  An object of type `bayesianVARs_bvar`.

- ahead:

  maximum number of time horizons.

- structural_restrictions:

  an object generated by
  [`specify_structural_restrictions`](https://luisgruber.github.io/bayesianVARs/reference/specify_structural_restrictions.md).
  If specified, the IRFs to the structural shocks identified by the
  restrictions given in this argument will be calculated. If not
  specified, the orthogonal IRFs based on the Cholesky decomposition
  will be calculated. Note that the orthogonal IRFs depend on the
  ordering of the variables and do not necessarily correspond to shocks
  with a meaningful interpretation.

- shocks:

  an matrix with r rows, where r is the number of shocks (see
  'Details'). Each column specifies a shock. Default: `diag(r)`, will
  calculate the responses to all structural (or factor) shocks of one
  standard deviation.

- hairy:

  set to `TRUE` in order to plot each path seperately. To show valid
  quantiles, an Bayes optimal order of the posterior samples will be
  calculated which can take a long time even for moderately many
  samples. Default: `FALSE`.

- ...:

  Following expert arguments can be specified:

  solver:

  :   `"randomized"` or `"lp"`. If some columns have more than one sign
      restriction, `"lp"` might find a solution, even if `"randomized"`
      is unable to. However `"lp"` can produce artifically narrow
      confidence bands which do not properly reflect the uncertainty in
      the identification scheme. Default: `"randomized"`

  randomized_max_rotations_per_sample:

  :   if using the `"randomized"` solver, how many rotations are drawn
      for each sample of the reduced form parameters in `x`. Default:
      `2`.

## Value

Returns a `bayesianVARs_irf` object.

## Details

If a factor model was used, then the number of shocks is equal to the
number of factors.

If the Cholesky model was used, then the number of shocks is equal to
the number of variables.

## References

Arias, J. and Rubio-Ramírez, J. and Waggoner, D. (2014). Inference Based
on SVARs Identified with Sign and Zero Restrictions: Theory and
Applications. *FRB Atlanta Working Paper Series*,
[doi:10.2139/ssrn.2580264](https://doi.org/10.2139/ssrn.2580264) .

## See also

[`specify_structural_restrictions`](https://luisgruber.github.io/bayesianVARs/reference/specify_structural_restrictions.md),
[`extractB0`](https://luisgruber.github.io/bayesianVARs/reference/extractB0.md)

## Author

Stefan Haan <sthaan@edu.aau.at>

## Examples

``` r
train_data <- 100 * usmacro_growth[,c("GDPC1", "GDPCTPI", "GS1", "M2REAL", "CPIAUCSL")]
prior_sigma <- specify_prior_sigma(train_data, type="cholesky", cholesky_heteroscedastic=FALSE)
#> 
#> Since argument 'type' is specified with 'cholesky', all arguments starting with 'factor_' are being ignored.
#> 
#> Argument 'cholesky_priorhomoscedastic' not specified. Setting both shape and rate of inverse gamma prior equal to 0.01.
mod <- bvar(train_data, lags=5L, prior_sigma=prior_sigma, quiet=TRUE)

structural_restrictions <- specify_structural_restrictions(
 mod,
 restrictions_B0=rbind(
   c(1 ,NA,0 ,NA,NA),
   c(0 ,1 ,0 ,NA,NA),
   c(0 ,NA,1 ,NA,NA),
   c(0 ,0 ,NA,1 ,NA),
   c(0 ,0 ,0 ,0 ,1 )
 )
)
irf_structural <- irf(
 mod, ahead=8,
 structural_restrictions=structural_restrictions
)
plot(irf_structural)

```
